---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 8
published: true
title:  "Week 8 – Projects, Optimization"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
readings:
  - name: "ChosoPy WASM Compiler"
    url: "https://github.com/ucsd-cse231-s22/chocopy-wasm-compiler"
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59pm Monday, May 23, 2022"
      name: "Project Merge Update / Milestone 2 Plan"
      url: "#project-milestone-code"
    - due-date: "11:59pm Monday, May 23, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 7"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
notes:
---


<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Readings & Due Dates

**Read**:

<ul>
{% for reading in page.readings %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ reading.url }}">{{ reading.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

**TODOs**:

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials

{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% else %}
_Links to podcasts, notes, and code from class will be here after they're created!_
{% endfor %}

## Project Milestone 2

### Merges and Planning

At this point, you've received some feedback on your pull request from your
first milestone of code. Now we have two goals:

1. Get everything merged and in reasonably similar styles
2. Make sure everything works together, including unintended/unpredictable interactions

This will be your focus for Monday, May 23.

You will:

1. Respond to feedback and get your pull request to the point where it can be
merged (basically to the satisfaction of the course staff as described in the
feedback).
2. Read the _other_ features' pull requests for your compiler, and for _each of
them_, either:
    - Describe in a few sentences why your feature and that feature don't really
    interact much. Give an example of a program that showcases your feature and
    theirs without interacting, and justify why it's representative (that is,
    why there isn't some other interesting interaction between your features)
    - Identify a place where your features overlap and will need more
    implementation to make them work together. This might be an opportunity for
    cool new stuff, or something that's broken.
        1. Describe it with a representatitve test case/scenario. This could be a
        Python program that will have an issue and crash the compiler because
        the two features were combined, or a novel combination of features that
        need good behavior. It could also be a UI interaction, a reason
        libraries won't work well together, etc.
        2. Describe what changes you think are needed to make these features
        work together: What should the new expected output be? What new
        additions to the compiler are needed to make them work together? Does
        their design need to change a bit, or does yours? How? Treat this like
        the first 

    Manage your time – there's no official “right” or “wrong” answers here, but
    at least have a group member spend at 10-15 minutes on each one. Put this
    analysis in a file called `<your-feature>-conflicts.md`.
3. Summarize the remaining features you want to add to get to what you consider
reasonable functionality for your feature would be. These might be left over
from the first week, or obvious next steps (like you only supported a data
structure with a fixed size, and needed to generalize that). Add this to the end
of your `design.md` as a new section, and give test cases/scenarios to describe
your goals.

(1) should be completed by finishing work on your current milestone pull request.
(2) and (3) should be submitted as _new_ pull requests.

For reference, here are all the features.

- Compiler A: Bignums
- Compiler A: Built-in libraries
- Compiler A: Closures/first class/anonymous functions
- Compiler A: comprehensions
- Compiler A: Destructuring assignment
- Compiler A: Error reporting
- Compiler A: Fancy calling conventions 
- Compiler A: for loops/iterators
- Compiler A: Front-end user interface
- Compiler A: Generics and polymorphism
- Compiler A: I/O, files
- Compiler A: Inheritance
- Compiler A: Lists
- Compiler A: Memory management
- Compiler A: Optimization
- Compiler A: Sets and/or tuples and/or dictionaries
- Compiler A: Strings

- Compiler B: Bignums
- Compiler B: Built-in libraries/Modules/FFI
- Compiler B: Closures/first class/anonymous functions
- Compiler B: comprehensions
- Compiler B: Destructuring assignment
- Compiler B: Error reporting
- Compiler B: Fancy calling conventions 
- Compiler B: for loops/iterators
- Compiler B: Front-end user interface
- Compiler B: Generics and polymorphism
- Compiler B: I/O, files
- Compiler B: Inheritance
- Compiler B: Lists
- Compiler B: Memory management
- Compiler B: Optimization
- Compiler B: Sets and/or tuples and/or dictionaries
- Compiler B: Strings

(Testing group – take the time to come up with combinations you think are likely
to break! You don't have to do all 16 * 16 combinations, but use your judgment
to find interesting intersections.)


### ChocoPy

If you're working on ChocoPy, instead answer the following questions and submit
your updated code at this new milestone. Put the answers in a `README.md` along
with your code in the Gradescope submission.

- Which features had interactions that you didn't expect before you started
implementing?
- What feature are you most proud of in your implementation and why?
- What features remain to implement?
- Is there anything you're stuck on?
- Consider programs that work in Python, but not in ChocoPy, involving strings
or lists. Pick one that you think would be a straightforward extension to your
compiler – describe how you would implement it. Pick one that you think would be
an extremely difficult extension to your compiler – describe why.

