---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 7
published: true
title:  "Week 7 – CFA and Projects"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
readings:
  - name: "Liveness"
    url: "https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rjsimmon/15411-f15/lec/04-liveness.pdf"
  - name: "Dataflow"
    url: "https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rjsimmon/15411-f15/lec/07-dataflow.pdf"
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59pm Friday, May 13, 2022"
      name: "Project Milestone Handin (Code)"
      url: "#project-milestone-code"
    - due-date: "11:59pm Monday, May 16, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 6"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
notes:
    - name: "Lecture 13 (Tue 05/10) Handout"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1I7iAPyoEVOWOkpBOJNx11zHLeyD6k8yL"
    - name: "Lecture 14 (Thu 05/12) Handout"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/18R_b_lQeujP7Y0j-u60knjAbZRS3JnAs"
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Readings & Due Dates

**Read**:

<ul>
{% for reading in page.readings %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ reading.url }}">{{ reading.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

**TODOs**:

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials

{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% else %}
_Links to podcasts, notes, and code from class will be here after they're created!_
{% endfor %}

## Project Milestone Code

You will submit a _new_ pull request with all of your _code_ for the milestone
you proposed last Friday. (If you're working on ChocoPy, just submit your code
to the Week 2 Milestone submission on Gradescope and don't submit a pull
request).

You might not be able to implement everything you set out to do! That's fine!
It's very difficult to gauge what “a week of work” on a compiler is.

You should have:

- _Some_ progress that is automatically testable
- An updated `design.md` that describes where you were able to get to and
reflects all of your new design decisions you learned about this week as you
tried to implement. Indicate especially what we should run/test to see what you
produced that's most interesting.
- Code that builds and runs when checked out, has passing tests with `npm test`
(including at least some new tests)
- A working REPL and main IDE
- No conflicts with the main `2022` branch (the main default branch)

A few guidelines for avoiding bad merge conflicts:

- Put your tests in their own file
- Don't do large reformats of entire files (check your PR for large whitespace
differences where you may have re-indented, etc)
- Don't rename variables or refactor code unless your code cannot work without
those changes
- Prefer adding new AST/IR forms to changing existing ones (or, if you add
fields, add them as optional `?` fields like `a` is optional), and leaving old
behavior intact

Your milestone tests from Friday are your goal – go for it, ask lots of
questions, and in the following week we'll all be working on merging, doing some
interface updates where we weren't able to avoid conflicts for good reason, and
planning out the next set of tests to pass. To give a sense:

- Week 7 is implementation of first milestones
- Week 8 is merging, cleanup of first milestone, and planning the rest
- Week 9 is implementation of second milestones
- Week 10 is cleanup and final merging

So expect a Friday deadline for each of the next few weeks along these lines.
Emphasize pacing yourself, testing to know where you're at, always having
working code, and making incremental progress.
