---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 6
published: true
title:  "Week 6 – IR and Projects"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
readings:
  - name: "ChosoPy WASM Compiler"
    url: "https://github.com/ucsd-cse231-s22/chocopy-wasm-compiler"
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59pm Friday, May 6, 2022"
      name: "Project Milestone Sketch (Test Cases)"
      url: "#project-milestone-tests"
    - due-date: "11:59pm Monday, May 9, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 6"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
notes:
---


<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Readings & Due Dates

**Read**:

<ul>
{% for reading in page.readings %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ reading.url }}">{{ reading.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

**TODOs**:

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials

{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% else %}
_Links to podcasts, notes, and code from class will be here after they're created!_
{% endfor %}

## Project Milestone Tests

For your first task, you need to meet with your group (reminder – group
assignments [here on Piazza, link coming soon]()) and decide on what your first
milestone ought to look like. There are a few main goals here:

- Meet your group and start communication with them
- Commit to some test cases you'll pass by the end of week 7
- Report back on changes you think will be needed to the AST and other shared
interfaces, for cross-team communication

All of these goals apply to **both** the ChocoPy teams and the teams working on
the big compiler!

You will submit a **Pull Request** to (link coming soon!):

- In the directory `designs/`, add a file called `<projectname>-design.md`, with
the following contents **10** test cases that your team commits to passing by
the end of week 7. They should be meaningfully different from one another. Most
of these will be Python programs, like `print(len("abcd"))` should print `4` for
the strings group.

  In particular, some of the more complex topics like closures, memory
  management, or optimization might not have obvious week-1 candidates. If
  you're not sure what you'll be able to get done in a week, ask. There is
  probably some other kind of test you can write other than a Python program. 

- A list of _all_ changes you want to make to the AST, IR, and built-in
libraries to support your test cases. This can be through a combination of
actual changes you make and suggest via PR (e.g. change `ast.ts`, then push the
commit and include it in the PR), and listed descriptions in your `design.md`
file. For AST/IR changes, write out in detail what's an expression, what's a
value, what's a string, etc. For new files like `memory.wat`, describe which
functions will go there.

- A description of any new functions, datatypes, and/or files added to the
codebase. These can be actual code diffs in the PR _or_ written in your
`design.md`.

- A description of the value representation and memory layout for any new
runtime values you will add. These should be described in `design.md` rather
than implemented directly.

If you're working on ChocoPy, think carefully about if your tests should span
multiple features, or if there's a feature you want to focus on first. You will
still need to make all of ChocoPy work by the end of the quarter, but you might
prefer to make simple cases work across all features, or finish e.g. all of
lists before moving on.

You might not need to fill out all of these sections depending on your project
(aside from having 10 useful scenarios/tests you want to make work). Just note
it explicitly if you don't think you'll make a particular category of changes.

On Gradescope, you'll submit a _group_ assignment with a link to your PR to the
"Project Milestone Proposal" assignment.

We might give you feedback next week nudging you to be less (or more!)
ambitious, and coordinate across groups that are trying to add similar library
functions, features, or AST constructs.

