---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 1
published: true
title:  "Week 4 – Classes and REPL"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
current: true
readings:
    - name: "WebAssembly Tables (docs)"
      url: "https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Understanding_the_text_format#webassembly_tables"
    - name: "WebAssembly Table Imports (blog)"
      url: "https://hacks.mozilla.org/2017/07/webassembly-table-imports-what-are-they/"
    - name: "Classes, Methods, and Inheritance"
      url: "https://ucsd-cse231-w21.github.io/objects/"
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59pm  WEDNESDAY, April 20, 2022"
      name: "Assignment 2.5"
      url: "/week/week4/#code-reviewing-another-compiler"
    - due-date: "11:59pm Friday, April 22, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 4"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
    - due-date: "11:59pm Friday, April 29, 2022"
      name: "Assignment 3"
      url: "/week/week5/"
notes:
---


<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Readings & Due Dates

**Read**:

<ul>
{% for reading in page.readings %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ reading.url }}">{{ reading.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

**TODOs**:

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials

{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% else %}
_Links to podcasts, notes, and code from class will be here after they're created!_
{% endfor %}

## Code Reviewing Another Compiler

In this assignment, you'll spend time reflecting on, and learning from, the
designs you and others chose for PA2.

We will make all of the PA2 compilers available to the class. We will make an
effort to anonymize them, but if there are lots of comments, etc, with your
name on them we may not be able to, and we may not be able to remove all
traces of git history and other identifying information. You can provide us
with a git repository that you anonymize if you'd like to manage this
yourself.


You will be assigned 2 other compilers to review. Spend no more than 1 hour
per compiler per prompt below (many will take much less than that). If you
find yourself taking more, summarize and move on. The whole assignment
shouldn't take more than about 4 hours to complete, though you may want to
spend more time than that reading and studying the compilers you are
reviewing (and we encourage it)!

Your feedback will be **shared with the class (including the author of the
compiler)**, so make sure to keep what you write professional and
constructive.

### Assigned Compilers

All submitted compilers and the instructions for downloading them are available
via [this Piazza post](https://piazza.com/class/l19qaxisql23rt).

### Tracing the Compiler

For **each** of the compilers you are reviewing, choose two programs that run
successfully on the compiler under review (e.g. they match ChocoPy's
behavior). Make sure that between them, they at least use:

  - Global variables
  - A function definition and function call
  - If _or_ while
  - At least 2 different binary operators
  - An int and a bool

For each program you chose, show _three_ relevant code snippets from the
compiler that are critical to its compilation. For example, you might
show the data structures used in the type checker, the code generation,
and the parsing for a particular expression. Only choose the same snippet
of code for both programs if it behaves in an interestingly different way
across the two.

For each code snippet, write a sentence of how it relates to different parts
of the program you're testing.

You can use the same two programs on both compilers if you think they
illustrate the behavior well.

### Bugs, Missing Features, and Design Decisions

For **each** compiler you are reviewing, choose a program that has different
behavior than the PA2 subset of ChocoPy (either produces an error, isn't
implemented, or produces a different answer).

- If a key feature in the program isn't implemented, describe how you would
add it to the compiler (see below for how to do this).
- If it is implemented but produces an error, describe how you could fix the
error and make it produce the same answer as ChocoPy (see below for how to do
this)
- If it is implemented but produces the wrong answer, decide if you
think this was a reasonable design decision. Describe as appropriate:

  1. If you think producing this answer instead made certain parts of the
  compiler design simpler or easier than matching ChocoPy, and identify how.
  3. If you think it's just a bug, and if so, how to fix it.
  4. If you think it's a better design decision than what was chosen by
  ChocoPy.
- If you think the compiler perfectly implements the PA2 subset of ChocoPy,
explain what you tested to reach this conclusion and why you are confident
that it does.

### Lessons and Advice

Answer the following questions:

1. Identify a decision made in this compiler that's different from yours.
Describe one way in which it's a **better** design decision than you made.
1. Identify a decision made in this compiler that's different from yours.
Describe one way in which it's a **worse** design decision than you made.
1. What's one improvement you'll make to your compiler based on seeing this
one?
1. What's one improvement you recommend this author makes to their compiler
based on reviewing it?

### Handin

You will this assignment as a PDF, first with the pages containing the review of
the first compiler you were assigned followed by pages containing the review of
the second. (We wish you could submit and label 2 pdfs but Gradescope doesn't
allow that).

