---
layout: page-fullwidth
subheadline: Week 1
published: true
title:  "Week 2 – ChocoPy, Types, and Functions"
tags:
    - post week
categories:
    - week
header: no
readings:
    - name: "ChocoPy"
      url: "https://chocopy.org/"
    - name: "A Type Calculator"
      url: "https://ucsd-cse131-f19.github.io/lectures/10-15-lec6/"
    - name: "Tagging Values"
      url: "https://course.ccs.neu.edu/cs4410/lec_tagging-values_notes.html"
todos:
    - due-date: "11:59pm Friday, April 8, 2022"
      name: "Quiz 2"
      url: "https://www.gradescope.com"
    - due-date: "11:59pm Monday, April 4, 2022"
      name: "Assignment 1"
      url: "/week/week1/#assignment-1"
    - due-date: "11:59pm *Wednesday*, April 13, 2022"
      name: "Assignment 2"
      url: "/week/week2/#assignment-2"
notes:
    - name: "Lecture 3 (Tues 04/05) Handout"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1tfcuCEr8TSz7W5TixTnROaPy6J8B0x_s"
    - name: "Lecture 4 (Thu 04/07) Handout"
      url: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hfASDBsdKyxZkyHrPmSu-GoAfb-vPYKC"
---

<div class="row">
<div class="medium-4 medium-push-8 columns" markdown="1">
<div class="panel radius fixed-toc"  data-options="sticky_on:large" markdown="1">
**Table of Contents**
{: #toc }
*  TOC
{:toc}
</div>
</div><!-- /.medium-4.columns -->

<div class="medium-8 medium-pull-4 columns" markdown="1">

## Readings & Due Dates

**Read**:

<ul>
{% for reading in page.readings %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ reading.url }}">{{ reading.name }}</a></li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

**TODOs**:

<ul>
{% for todo in page.todos %}
<li><a target="_blank" href="{{ todo.url }}">{{ todo.name }}</a> - Due {{ todo.due-date }}</li>
{% endfor %}
</ul>

## Lecture Materials

{% for note in page.notes %}
<a href="{{ note.url }}">{{ note.name }}</a>
<iframe src="{{ note.url }}/preview" width="640" height="480" allow="autoplay"></iframe>
{% else %}
_Links to podcasts, notes, and code from class will be here after they're created!_
{% endfor %}

## Assignment 2

### PA2: ChocoPy Functions, Types, and Control Flow

In this PA, you'll design and implement a compiler for all but the
heap-manipulating parts of ChocoPy.

There is some support code and examples that can help you:

- From lecture3, basics of functions and type-checking (you'll need to extend
this, but it has simple starting points)
https://github.com/ucsd-cse231-s22/lecture3

You can use any code from lecture directly or for inspiration (like
[lecture3](https://github.com/ucsd-cse231-s22/lecture3) or code we publish on
Piazza from office hours). It is by no means guaranteed to perfectly match the
ChocoPy spec, but it _does_ run and provide some valuable code structure
suggestions you will find useful. You might choose to base your implementation
on how you approached PA1, or take a different approach entirely based on what
you learned. Feel free to use snippets of TypeScript, WASM, and so on that you
find online as long as you're sure it has a permissive license. Link to the
source for code you use if you find it.
**Don't** try to find or use past solutions from last year (it's bad for
your learning, this assignment isn't exactly the same, etc).

Feel free to discuss the specification, approaches, implementation strategies
and tricks, etc. Try to do the programming on your own, but don't be afraid of
seeing someone else's code or learning a useful TypeScript pattern from them.
Focus on doing what you feel is best for one anothers' learning. If you struggle
on this assignment and don't get all the credit, there will be opportunities to
make it up, so focus on developing your skills rather than trying to put
together a complete solution you don't understand.

So that we can test your code and for the examples described at the end, you
need to support:

- A web-based text box with a run button and output for successful compilation
and for errors, using `npm run build-web`
- A `node-main`-like interface for running programs from the command line, using
`npm run build-cli`
- Some way to write unit tests for your code, which runs with `npm test`

We highly recommend using some repository we've given you to get the packages
and basics in place, but you're free to (and responsible for!) making any
updates and changes to meet the specification below.

### Language Specification

You'll be implementing the following sub-grammar of ChocoPy:

<html>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
<pre>
<code>program := &lt;var_def | func_def><sup>*</sup> &lt;stmt><sup>*</sup>
var_def := &lt;typed_var> = &lt;literal>
typed_var := &lt;name> : &lt;type>
func_def := def &lt;name>([&lt;typed_var> [, &lt;typed_var>]<sup>*</sup>]<sup>?</sup>) [-> &lt;type>]<sup>?</sup> : &lt;func_body>
func_body := &lt;var_def><sup>*</sup> &lt;stmt><sup>+</sup>
stmt := &lt;name> = &lt;expr>
      | if &lt;expr>: &lt;stmt><sup>+</sup> [elif &lt;expr>: &lt;stmt><sup>+</sup>]<sup>?</sup> [else: &lt;stmt><sup>+</sup>]<sup>?</sup>
      | while &lt;expr>: &lt;stmt><sup>+</sup>
      | pass
      | return &lt;expr><sup>?</sup>
      | &lt;expr>
expr := &lt;literal>
      | &lt;name>
      | &lt;uniop> &lt;expr>
      | &lt;expr> &lt;binop> &lt;expr>
      | ( &lt;expr> )
      | &lt;name>([&lt;expr> [, &lt;expr>]<sup>*</sup>]<sup>?</sup>)
uniop := not | -
binop := + | - | * | // | % | == | != | &lt;= | >= | &lt; | > | is                 
literal := None
         | True
         | False
         | &lt;number>
type := int | bool
number := 32-bit integer literals</code>
</pre>
</html>

The grammar above is a strict subset of ChocoPy's. Namely, the grammar above 
excludes:
- lists
- strings
- classes
- nested functions
- for loops
- global and nonlocal declarations inside a function

Your compiler should have _the same output and error messages_ as ChocoPy for
programs in this subset. If you need to test out a program to check its
behavior, you can do so at ChocoPy's web site.

### Handin

You will turn in two deliverables, a repository containing your implementation,
and an informative README PDF.

Turn in your codebase to `pa2-code` and your writeup to `pa2-pdf` on Gradescope.

There is no autograder for this assignment. You are responsible for testing
your implementation and ensuring that it matches the ChocoPy reference
implementation's behavior on the relevant sub-language for this PA.

Your README should include the following components:

1. A description of the representation of values (integers, booleans, and
None) in your implementation. Show how the representation is used to print
`True`/`False` for boolean results rather than numeric output.
2. Give an example of a program that uses
    - At least one global variable
    - At least one function with a parameter
    - At least one variable defined inside a function

    By linking to specific definitions and code in your implementation,
    describe where and how those three variables are stored and represented
    throughout compilation.
3. Write a ChocoPy program that goes into an infinite loop. What happens when
you run it on the web page using your compiler?
4. For each of the following scenarios, show a screenshot of your compiler
running the scenario in the browser:
    1. A program that reports a type error for adding a number and a boolean
    where one operand is a call expression and the other operand is a variable
    (for example, `f(1) + x`)
    2. A program that has a type error in a conditional position (the condition
    part of an if or while), where that position is a _non-global_ identifier
    (function parameter or local variable)
    3. A program that with a loop that has multiple iterations, and calls a
    function on each iteration (it can be the same function)
    3. A program that returns from the body of a loop, and not on the first
    iteration of the loop
    4. Printing an integer and a boolean
    5. A recursive function that terminates (e.g. no stack overflow)
    6. Two mutually-recursive functions that terminate (e.g. no stack overflow)
5. Choose _one_ of example (1) or (2) above, show a few lines of code around the
line that reports the error and describe the relevant parts of the type-checking
environment at that point.

If for any of the above items you _don't complete it_, write a short explanation
of why it was hard/what you think needs to be done in order to finish it (just a
few sentences), which will help us understand your overall learning and give the
best feedback.



</div>
